Update travel/README.md (#865)
mattermost/mattermost-handbook: operations/workplace/people/working-at-mattermost/travel/README.md

---
description: 25% - this is a work in progress page and will be added to overtime
---

# Travel

### Things to know about planning an in-person meet-up 
 

> We run as a distributed, high performance and high-trust team and enabling team members to make meaningful connections is part of our culture.  In-person meetups are an opportunity to build on those relationships. All in-person travel requires a Meetup Champions, also called Travel DRIs. This person will partner with the Workplace Community Manager on planning and logistics, and will also be responsible for obtaining appropriate approvals and ensuring applicable travel guidelines are followed.  

Author: Minor

"requires a Meetup Champions" -> "requires a Meetup Champion" (or without "a" and plural Champions).

"also called Travel DRIs" can be like that if it's consistent with plural Champions.

Author: Is it clear who or what the "Workplace Community Manager" is? (Who is this?)

> We run as a distributed, high performance and high-trust team and enabling team members to make meaningful connections is part of our culture.  In-person meetups are an opportunity to build on those relationships. All in-person travel requires a Meetup Champions, also called Travel DRIs. This person will partner with the Workplace Community Manager on planning and logistics, and will also be responsible for obtaining appropriate approvals and ensuring applicable travel guidelines are followed.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We run as a distributed, high performance and high trust team and enabling team members to make meaningful connections is part of our culture. In-person meetups are an opportunity to build on those relationships. All in-person travel requires a Meetup Champions, also called Travel DRIs.

This person will partner with the Workplace Community Manager on planning and logistics, and will also be responsible for obtaining appropriate approvals and ensuring applicable travel guidelines are followed.
```

**Process for getting started**  

> 1. Obtain written approval to plan an in-person meetup from your Team MLT. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Obtain written approval to plan an in-person meetup from your Team MLT.
```

> 2. Make a copy of this [Meetup Template](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ZD6BchqUMPC0quYkU_vnT95vENxMSGZ3DRWQi7jxWhQ/edit#gid=626981306) and complete as much as you can. Share your Meetup Template and the written approval with the Workplace Community Manager (WPCM). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Make a copy of this [Meetup Template](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ZD6BchqUMPC0quYkU_vnT95vENxMSGZ3DRWQi7jxWhQ/edit#gid=626981306) and complete as much as you can. Share your Meetup Template and the written approval with the Workplace Community Manager (WPCM).
```

 
### Staff Travel Guidelines During COVID 
 

> Mattermost is not requiring any team members to travel during COVID. Although there may be some in-person travel planned for teams, departments, conferences, or meet-ups, no team member will be required to attend. We understand that folks may feel safer to travel depending on the current COVID data for the region they reside and plan to travel to, but we also understand that factors can change very quickly. We've created the following guidelines for anyone looking into or participating in any sort of in-person travel.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mattermost doesn't require any team members to travel during COVID. Although there may be some in-person travel planned for teams, departments, conferences, or meet-ups no team member will be required to attend. We understand that folks may feel safer to travel depending on the current COVID data for the region they reside and plan to travel to, but we also understand that factors can change very quickly. We've created the following guidelines for anyone looking into or participating in any sort of in-person travel.
```

> 1. **100% optional event.** Attendance is not required for in-person meetings or events. Attending meetings or events in-person is at your own discretion and risk. Travelers should note: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **100% optional event.** Attendance is not required for in-person meetings or events. Attending meetings or events in-person is at your own discretion and risk. Travelers should note:
```

>   * You may need a proof of Covid-19 vaccine and/or PCR test at departure/arrival at some airports, it is each traveler’s responsibility to research, understand and abide by these requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * You may need a proof of Covid-19 vaccine and/or PCR test at departure/arrival at some airports. It's each traveler’s responsibility to research, understand, and abide by these requirements.
```

>   * Travelers are responsible for knowing any travel visa requirements of your destination region(s) and region of origin.  Please see more info here: Handbook > business travel . 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Travelers are responsible for knowing any travel visa requirements of their destination region(s) and region of origin. Please see more info here: Handbook > business travel.
```

> 2. **Plan Inclusively.** We understand that not all team members will be able, or feel safe, to travel, and we ask that trip planners be mindful of your team, department, and colleagues when requesting a trip. This can include having an open conversation with the team members ahead of planning the trip. Staff are welcome to reach out to your People Partner or the Workplace Community Manager for help/tips on how to open these conversations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Plan inclusively.** We understand that not all team members will be able, or feel safe, to travel, and we ask that trip planners be mindful of your team, department, and colleagues when requesting a trip. This can include having an open conversation with the team members ahead of planning the trip.

Staff are welcome to reach out to their People Partner or the Workplace Community Manager for help/tips on how to open these conversations.
```

>   * Plan inclusive events with team members that do not attend, examples of this include, but aren’t limited to: access to meetings, conversations, notes, decisions. See: Dev Handbook > Meeting Etiquette for additional tips.

Author: This meeting Etiquette link? https://docs.mattermost.com/process/training.html#meeting-etiquette

If so:
```
[our meeting etiquette guidelines](https://docs.mattermost.com/process/training.html#meeting-etiquette)
```

Reviewer 2: TY @zefhemel!

>   * Plan inclusive events with team members that do not attend, examples of this include, but aren’t limited to: access to meetings, conversations, notes, decisions. See: Dev Handbook > Meeting Etiquette for additional tips.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Plan inclusive events with team members that do not attend. Examples of this include, but aren’t limited to: access to meetings, conversations, notes, decisions. See: [our meeting etiquette guidelines](https://docs.mattermost.com/process/training.html#meeting-etiquette) for additional tips.
```

>   * Team members can include a direct team, a guild, or a department but should make clear that there is no obligation nor requirement to attend any meetings or events in person.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Team members can include a direct team, a guild, or a department but should make clear that there is no obligation nor requirement to attend any meetings or events in-person.
```

> 3. **Follow Mandated Travel Guidelines.** Travelers are responsible for and required to abide by the guidelines enforced in all locations to which they are traveling, this includes flight stopovers and the duration of the event. Additionally, travelers should refer to [CDC guidelines](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/index.html), [reccomendations](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/map-and-travel-notices.html), and any local equivalent to ensure it’s safe to travel to/from the home region and destination. If you are unsure, please reach out to your manager or workplace to help blindspot check. 

Author: reccomendations -> recommendations

> 3. **Follow Mandated Travel Guidelines.** Travelers are responsible for and required to abide by the guidelines enforced in all locations to which they are traveling, this includes flight stopovers and the duration of the event. Additionally, travelers should refer to [CDC guidelines](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/index.html), [reccomendations](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/map-and-travel-notices.html), and any local equivalent to ensure it’s safe to travel to/from the home region and destination. If you are unsure, please reach out to your manager or workplace to help blindspot check. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Follow mandated travel guidelines.** Travelers are responsible for, and required to abide by, the guidelines enforced in all locations to which they are traveling, this includes flight stopovers and the duration of the event. Additionally, travelers should refer to [CDC guidelines](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/index.html), [recommendations](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/map-and-travel-notices.html), and any local equivalent to ensure it’s safe to travel to/from the home region and destination. 

If you are unsure, please reach out to your manager or workplace to help blindspot check.
```

> 4. **Book refundable fare + lodging.** In the event that COVID travel requirements change in the departure or arrival regions, we should select refundable rates whenever possible.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Book refundable fare and lodging.** Select refundable rates whenever possible in the event that COVID travel requirements change in the departure or arrival regions.
```

>   a. For conferences or solo-type trips, Mattermost will not sponsor any lodging expenses due to quarantine requirements, unless there's a unique situation where this quarantine was unavoidable. [Note: this trip is optional and not a work requirement, and similar to other trips like MatterCon, we won't cover any expenses outside of what the regional meetups state. We do have travel insurance, and staff are encouraged to review the AIG FAQ to understand coverage, guidelines and requirements.]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  a. For conferences or solo-type trips, Mattermost will not sponsor any lodging expenses due to quarantine requirements, unless there's a unique situation where this quarantine was unavoidable. [Note: this trip is optional and not a work requirement, and similar to other trips like MatterCon, we won't cover any expenses outside of what the regional meetups state. We do have travel insurance, and staff are encouraged to review the AIG FAQ to understand coverage, guidelines, and requirements].
```

>   b. Our preferred airline vendor is United Airlines and we have an account you can use.  For info on booking travel, see handbook: staff member expenses > airfare and traveling. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  b. Our preferred airline vendor is United Airlines and we have an account you can use.  For info on booking travel, see handbook: staff member expenses > airfare and traveling.
```

  c. If you need help booking your travels, please use [this form](https://forms.gle/CEMNgK4GHuAWAiqX6).

> 5. **Travel Approval.** Travel Champions will need approval by their Team MLT member and the Workplace Community Manager (WPCM) prior to booking. Travel approval requests should include: trip dates, purpose, and budget/cost. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **Travel approval.** Travel Champions will need approval by their Team MLT member and the Workplace Community Manager (WPCM) prior to booking. Travel approval requests should include: trip dates, purpose, and budget/cost.
```

  a. Please use [this Meetups template](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ZD6BchqUMPC0quYkU_vnT95vENxMSGZ3DRWQi7jxWhQ/edit?usp=sharing) and share with the WPCM for review and approval.
  b. **Travel champions are responsible for all travel planning.** See above template for more information. If you need help please reach out to the WPCM.

>   c. Meetup requests that are longer than one day must be submitted two months in advance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  c. Meetup requests that are longer than one day must be submitted two months in advance.
```

>   d. Meetup requests for a one day meetup must be submitted two weeks in advance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  d. Meetup requests for a one-day meetup must be submitted two weeks in advance.
```

> 6. **Mask Etiquette.** In addition to following the guidelines of the venues and region, team  should plan to follow the [CDC Guidelines for face coverings](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/about-face-coverings.html). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. **Mask etiquette.** In addition to following the guidelines of the venues and region, team  should plan to follow the [CDC Guidelines for face coverings](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/about-face-coverings.html).
```

> 7. **Covid-19 Travel Working Group.** This group will consist of: Hanna Park, Natalie Jew, Jamie Hurewitz, Zef Hemmel, who will meet on a monthly basis to assess any changes that may need to be made to the guidelines. Changes will be shared with MLT and MLX prior to finalization and internal messaging. 

Author: Hemmel -> Hemel :)

Reviewer 2: Oops, sorry, thanks @zefhemel

> 7. **Covid-19 Travel Working Group.** This group will consist of: Hanna Park, Natalie Jew, Jamie Hurewitz, Zef Hemmel, who will meet on a monthly basis to assess any changes that may need to be made to the guidelines. Changes will be shared with MLT and MLX prior to finalization and internal messaging. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. **Covid-19 Travel Working Group.** This group will consist of: Hanna Park, Natalie Jew, Jamie Hurewitz, Zef Hemel, who will meet on a monthly basis to assess any changes that may need to be made to the guidelines. Changes will be shared with MLT and MLX prior to finalization and internal messaging.
```
